---
title: In My Own Words
author: gourabdg47
date: 25-03-25 02:00:00 +0500
categories: [Blogging, Journal]
tags: [writing]
render_with_liquid: false
---

Transitioning professional with a strong foundation in system analysis, automation, and problem-solving. Actively preparing
for Security+ certification and self-studying threat intelligence frameworks (MITRE ATT&CK, Diamond Kill Chain), OSINT
techniques. I want to pursue cybersecurity because - a quest driven by my own relentless curiosity and inner passion

## Journey till then

I remember the day I got my first computer. It was an AMD Processor cpu with 4gb ram and 500 HDD. I was so excited to have my own computer, I didn't had internet connection at that time so I started practicing basic C programming taught at my school and used to play some games like `Wolfenstein 3D (1992), Doom (1993), Quake (1996), Half-Life (1998), etc`. I remember writing my first program (other then 'Hello world') in C was converting fahrenheit to celsius converter. 
From class 10 - 12, I did dip my toe into cybersecurity (ethical ✌hacking), learnt different vulnerabilities, how to exploit them, how to stay anonymous, etc. I was part of a group where we used to exchange knowledges, resources, etc. It was really fun times and I did get to learn a lot. 
Anyways after class 12 I did graduation (2016) from █████████ ██ ███████████ ███ ██████████, I was decent in studies and a true backbencher. Completed my masters in 2018 from ███████ █████████ ██ ██████████. Since I didn't had the best marks in class 12 I was unable to sit for collage placements. I had to try off-campus. I got an internship at █████████ as a Machine learning engineer intern. At that time, I did study basic Machine learning and little bit of deep learning for interview preparation but didn't had how it can be used to solve real world problems. Looking back, I feel I was glad that I was unable to sit for placements because here at █████████ I really did enjoyed. I had the opportunity to work on some really tough and interesting problems. 

- Automated defect detection for automobile engines by developing deep learning models (CNNs), aiding clients like ████ in identifying
production line anomalies and improving quality control.
- Pioneered fine-grained text-to-image generation using Attn-GAN, translating detailed descriptions into realistic images, with applications
in the fashion industry (e.g., dress generation).
- Built a local language speech recognition system for Hindi-to-text conversion, leveraging call center data and translating to English via
keyword matching to improve communication accessibility.

Keywords: `Computer Vision`, `GCP`, `NLP`

After the internship (9 Months) I took 3 months break then joined █████████ as a Machine Learning Engineer. Here I used to work inside a highly secured lab with multiple access controls. Here, I mostly worked in automation, audio analysis, IOT and computer vision problems.

- Developed a personalized chatbot using ████ for a self-service medical platform, enabling patients to answer questions, access knowledge
bases, find doctors and book appointments witch was deployed in AWS.
- Designed an AI-powered calorie estimation tool for Indian cuisine, utilizing a MobileNet v2 model to provide accurate calorie counts from
food images.
- Built an ”Hey Maya”voice interface for offline chatbot functionality, deploying on Raspberry Pi to enhance accessibility. 

Keywords: `Computer Vision`, `Research`, `IOT`, `AWS`

During Covid was doing WFH and the period during covid was really bad. Both my parents were ill and of them was admitted to hospital. August of 2021, I resigned from █████████ and was working as a backend developer as part time for a startup called ███████████. I was mostly designing and developing APIs using ██████ ████ █████████ and also managing the deployment in AWS. I got to learn how APIs works, how to secure an API and there use cases. Here I did enjoyed development and I started looking for more permanent job in this field. 

Around March 2022 I joined ███████████, as a Product Engineer. This was a health and wellness startup based in █████████. They  offers services targeting conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, obesity, PCOS, and cardiovascular diseases. Their methodology encompasses personalized plans that integrate nutrition, fitness, mental well-being, and precise medical diagnostics. I was the only backend developer here and worked directly under the CTO. I mostly developed and optimized APIs using a platform called ████. I used to code using python, did the testing and production deployment in AWS. 

- Designed and developed robust APIs , ensuring scalable, secure, and maintainable backend architectures for various applications.
- Spearheaded creation of 27+ custom modules in ████ and implemented a fully automated diagnostics system, boosting decision-making.
- Skilled in REST API, Git, and AWS Lambda for designing comprehensive, scalable solutions, with specialized expertise in healthcare
focused projects.
- I led the full backend development lifecycle, ensuring seamless integration with frontend requirements and aligning with the CTO’ s vision

Keywords: `Postgres Sql`, `Rest API`, `Git`, `Python`

Well I resigned from ███████████ on December 2024 and right now I am doing the [Google Cybersecurity Professional Certificate](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/google-cybersecurity/) and preparing for the [CompTIA Security+](https://www.comptia.org/certifications/security) hoping to start my career in cybersecurity from may 2025 as a SOC Analyst L1 or L2. 
Wish me all the best of luck. ✌️

BTW I started writing this blog to document what I learnt, the path I take to start my career in cyber security and share any resources, researches or information I find.
So stay tuned ... 


> To get in touch with me or for general discussion please visit [ZeroDayMindset Discussion](https://github.com/orgs/X3N0-G0D/discussions) 
{: .prompt-info }
